docs/index.rst, before:

======================
Documentation Overview
======================

Welcome to the Werkzeug documentation.


Getting Started
---------------

If you are new to Werkzeug or WSGI development in general you
should start here.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   tutorial

Serving and Testing
-------------------

The development server and testing support and management script
utilities are covered here:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   serving
   test
   script

Reference
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   wrappers
   routing
   local
   utils
   templates
   exceptions

Contributed Modules
-------------------

A lot of useful code contributed by the community is shipped with Werkzeug
as part of the `contrib` module:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   contrib/index

Additional Information
----------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   terms
   unicode
   changes

If you can’t find the information you’re looking for, have a look at the
index or try to find it using the search function:

*   :ref:`genindex`
*   :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Added deployment documentation for lighttpd, nginx and apache.

docs/index.rst, after:

======================
Documentation Overview
======================

Welcome to the Werkzeug documentation.


Getting Started
---------------

If you are new to Werkzeug or WSGI development in general you
should start here.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   tutorial

Serving and Testing
-------------------

The development server and testing support and management script
utilities are covered here:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   serving
   test
   script

Reference
---------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   wrappers
   routing
   local
   utils
   templates
   exceptions

Deployment
----------

This section covers running your application in production on a web
server such as Apache or lighttpd.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   deployment/index

Contributed Modules
-------------------

A lot of useful code contributed by the community is shipped with Werkzeug
as part of the `contrib` module:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   contrib/index

Additional Information
----------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   terms
   unicode
   changes

If you can’t find the information you’re looking for, have a look at the
index or try to find it using the search function:

*   :ref:`genindex`
*   :ref:`search`
