docs/installation.rst, before:

============
Installation
============

Werkzeug requires at least Python 2.4 to work correctly.


Installing a released version
=============================

As a Python egg (via easy_install)
----------------------------------

You can install the most recent Werkzeug version using `easy_install`_::

    sudo easy_install Werkzeug

This will install a Werkzeug egg in your Python installation's `site-packages`
directory.

From the tarball release
-------------------------

1.  Download the most recent tarball from the `download page`_.
2.  Unpack the tarball.
3.  ``sudo python setup.py install``

Note that the last command will automatically download and install
`setuptools`_ if you don't already have it installed.  This requires a working
Internet connection.

This will install Werkzeug into your Python installation's `site-packages`
directory.


Installing the development version
==================================

If you want to play around with the code
----------------------------------------

1.  Install `Mercurial`_
2.  ``hg clone http://dev.pocoo.org/hg/werkzeug-main werkzeug``
3.  ``cd werkzeug``
4.  ``ln -s werkzeug /usr/lib/python2.X/site-packages``

As an alternative to step 4 you can also do ``python setup.py develop`` which
will install the package via setuptools in development mode.

If you just want the latest features and use them
-------------------------------------------------

::
    
    sudo easy_install Werkzeug==dev

This will install a Werkzeug egg containing the latest mercurial tip in
your Python installation's `site-packages` directory. Every time the
command is run, the sources are updated from the mercurial repository.


Documentation
=============

The egg builds include a documentation which is available in the `docs` folder
of the egg. If you're running Linux you will find the documentation here::

    file:///usr/lib/python2.X/site-packages/Werkzeug-Y.Z-py2.X.egg/docs/index.html

where `X`, `Y` and `Z` must be replaced by the Python/Werkzeug version number.


.. _download page: http://werkzeug.pocoo.org/download
.. _setuptools: http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/setuptools
.. _easy_install: http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/EasyInstall
.. _Mercurial: http://selenic.com/mercurial/

Commit message:

Added the changelog to the documentation.

docs/installation.rst, after:

============
Installation
============

Werkzeug requires at least Python 2.4 to work correctly.


Installing a released version
=============================

As a Python egg (via easy_install)
----------------------------------

You can install the most recent Werkzeug version using `easy_install`_::

    sudo easy_install Werkzeug

This will install a Werkzeug egg in your Python installation's `site-packages`
directory.

From the tarball release
-------------------------

1.  Download the most recent tarball from the `download page`_.
2.  Unpack the tarball.
3.  ``sudo python setup.py install``

Note that the last command will automatically download and install
`setuptools`_ if you don't already have it installed.  This requires a working
Internet connection.

This will install Werkzeug into your Python installation's `site-packages`
directory.


Installing the development version
==================================

If you want to play around with the code
----------------------------------------

1.  Install `Mercurial`_
2.  ``hg clone http://dev.pocoo.org/hg/werkzeug-main werkzeug``
3.  ``cd werkzeug``
4.  ``ln -s werkzeug /usr/lib/python2.X/site-packages``

If you just want the latest features and use them
-------------------------------------------------

::
    
    sudo easy_install Werkzeug==dev

This will install a Werkzeug egg containing the latest mercurial tip in
your Python installation's `site-packages` directory. Every time the
command is run, the sources are updated from the mercurial repository.

However we strongly recommend cloning the repository and linking it instead
as explained in the step before.


.. _download page: http://werkzeug.pocoo.org/download
.. _setuptools: http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/setuptools
.. _easy_install: http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/EasyInstall
.. _Mercurial: http://selenic.com/mercurial/
